# The Story

Afterwards, most experts claimed they were shocked by the rate at which human civilization collapsed. The cynics among them were quick to celebrate their grim predictions coming true, but found little comfort in a lost world. What semblance of social order was left after The Crisis quickly crumbled in The Panic that followed. While nations had stockpiled massive strategic fuel reserves more basic and less profitable resources were neglected. Water quickly ran out in many regions and people abandoned these uninhabitable zones. Many did not make the journey, and yet the mass migrations quickly rendered the old national borders irrelevant.

Nations who had thought themselves powerful, fell. Remnant factions of the old governments attempted to maintain order and provide services to the populations they could still reach. Most people collected into small communities and the city-state returned as the main form of human organization. Going back was difficult. People had forgotten how to grow food, build shelter, and provide the basics in a specialized advanced society.

Your party emerges and has gained a small number of followers. You hear that there are several other parties in nearby regions, and you imagine that perhaps society can be rebuilt...

## Chapter 1

Before The Crisis, land of Dylandia had been as near to a paradise as human civilization had ever seen. The government was just, if not slow moving. Dylandians were hospitable but proud. Quick to invite a stranger into their homes, but equally quick to kick that stranger out again if they gave offense.

Through the middle of the land runs a vast mountain chain with peaks towering above the plains to the east and the forests to the west. In the mountains, the people had built geothermal power plants to provide the electricity that the people needed. The mountains also provided the raw materials to produce various technologies from steel plows to computers. Before The Crisis, factories had been build on the shoulders of the lower peaks, but during the Panic, most of the people fled. A visiter to those factories these days would find only haunted ruins, or worse. Bands of scavengers now roam the cracked roads and paths that thread their way delicately through the passes. The power plants remain, but they are controlled by brigands and outlaws; the few who got rich during The Panic.

Once, before humans began domineering the land, vast forests stretched west of the mountains to the western Sea. For the need of lumber, most of them were cleared in the 100 years leading up to The Crisis. Trees that stood for thousands of years were replaced by fast growing tree plantations and suburbs. Efficiency and progress was the cry of westward expansion. If The Crisis brought any good to the world, it was to the natural world. In the years since The Panic subsided, the forests have begun to regrow, but perhaps humankind will not be around to see a rebalancing of nature. This is up to you.

East of the mountains large prairies existed since the beginning times. Human progress turned most of them to crop lands, and the vast fields grew all the food the nations could need. Dylandian farmland was so productive that the people traded their surplus with nations across the sea. Even after The Panic, this land remained fertile, if not so productive as it had before. While crops could still be grown, the people hoarded their produce in vast stockpiles. Even if supply routes hadn't been cut, it's unlikely that the farmers would've shared with their neighbors, or "outsiders" as they called them.

Far in the south and north of Dylandia, metropolises had been built. In the south, government was established and effectively organized all of Dylandia around common principles of economic liberty and individual responsibility. Incidentally, The Panic took hold strongest in regions where individualism was a paramount value, and the southern city fell in a week. Well, it didn't fall so much as it was torn apart from within. One unfortunate man was largely to blame for this. Tony Drumb inherited an arms manufacturing empire from his father. Drumb was mocked relentlessly throughout his early life for his name and his inherited wealth. By the time he was 15, he had changed his name to Anthony Power, an equally ridiculous name, and learned to manipulate the crowds. Most were enthralled by his particular brand of braggadocio and Power became one of the cool kids. Power also learned to cow those who resisted into submission with fairly unsophisticated bullying. The few who were above both his boasts and bullying he flattered incessantly, leaving very few outside his sway.

Power mastered the arts of manipulation by the time he cheated his way through university. He was lounging in his gold plated estate--he had a thing for gold--when The Crisis hit. A tackily dressed server clattered in on high heels carrying a phone.

"Talk to me," Power barked as he pushed the answer button.

"My liege, it's happened. The capitol building has fallen" replied a voice on the line.

"I know it. Start phase 3 of our campaign. I wanna see my guns in every house in the country by the end of the week and make sure people pay for the 'Freedom' subscription for ammo."

"It will be so."

If it hadn't been for Phase 3, the society of Dylandia might have recovered. While the capitol building had fallen, most of the government survived. Buildings can be rebuilt. If there are historians in the future, they'll remember that Phase 3 sparked The Panic, and proved pretty definitively that frightened humans should not be given free firearms with the purchase of an unlimited ammunition subscription. Power's firearms were in every house in the city within days of The Crisis, and the city tore itself apart within a week. After the fall of the Southern City, Power left to his safe haven in the mountains and while his products still circulate--better than most commodities--he has not been heard from since The Panic.

While the great Southern City had been the seat of government prior to The Crisis, the Northern City was a center for healthcare and social programs. This infrastructure was concentrated in the Northern City because it was the site of several large research universities. The Northern City was spared the strife spurred on by Power's nefarious schemes. In general, the Northern City was insulated from the immediate fallout of The Crisis and the subsequent terror of The Panic. However, by the time of The Crisis, the city had atrophied. The leaders of the city and the major institutions had grown old, their programs no longer relevant to the advancing world. Most of the denizens of Dylandia saw the institutions as obsolete and out of touch. Moreover, young folks were no longer interested in the long slow careers available in the Northern City. They could earn more in the Southern City as politicians and lobbyists or in the mountains as technologists.

As we embark on our story, the Council of Dylandia finds itself exiled to the outskirts of the Southern City. They lost their place as the capitol fell to rioters and revolutionaries. They remain stuck in exile and hiding until they've achieved sufficient public support to return.

After The Panic, The Food Mafia No Rats attempted to gain control of the great plains. Through strong arm tactics and protection networks, they've established a feeble organization to collect surplus food, but they lack the technology to reasonably distribute or preserve it. They also need medical and social programs to stop diseases, once cured, from decimating among the population. The people also resent the heavy handed control exerted by The Food Mafia and many farms refuse to contribute.

In the Northern City, a remaining band of young doctors and educators attempt to re-establish a university and infrastructure to provide healthcare. Unfortunately, they find it nearly impossible to recruit the various experts and potential students who scattered during The Panic. Without sufficient human resources, it will be impossible for them to provide the critical healthcare and education to support the mental and physical health of a future society.

In the wilds of the West, IHOP, International House of Peace, reigns supreme (and enjoys tasty tasty breakfasts). They control the natural resources that will be necessary for infrastructure to be rebuild. While the mountains are overrun by brigands and scavengers, members of IHOP hold some sway for their promise of amnesty and peace for all people. With some negotiation tactics, perhaps they can get trade through the passes.

## Chapter 2

Meanwhile in the land of Gilead, humanity was also on the brink. While Dylandia spanned a vast continent, Gilead was a relatively small region. To the West, untracked mountains rose to unsurmountable heights. Even before The Crisis and The Panic, most people who wished to reach the nations to the West flew above or sailed around. There were no roads or paths through the high mountain passes. The Western range was one of the few unexplored regions of the planet. Gilead's culture was ancient, and the original forests had already been lost for centuries by the time The Crisis hit. Even the farmland had been mostly developed. The pre-Panic nation of Gilead had relied heavily on importing food and other resources from across the Western Range or across the Eastern Sea. In exchange, Gilead had provided culture, government, and technology.

The Crisis eliminated more than half the population of Gilead. Despite the great suffering, the nation didn't collapse into the chaos of the Panic. The government dissolved and infrastructure disintegrated, but the people who survived turned to each other. With the vastly reduced population, the farmland that hadn't been turned into shopping malls and suburbs produced barely enough to sustain the population, but people became hungry and grim. While the Panic overran Dylandia like a wildfire, it sank Gilead into a deep depression.

On the edge of the Eastern Sea, Gileadites created a central hub of their shipping empire. Since they relied so heavily on imported resources, controlling the seas was central to their survival. The navy worked closely with merchant marines and logistics professionals to keep ships running, carrying goods between the nations and continents. Gileadite logistics were so reliable that other nations had contracted with Gilead to manage their trade routes. These routes withstood the initial period of The Crisis, but as The Panic gripped nations, the sailors refused to sail, and even if they had been willing, fuel shortages ended most trade.

Roads used to lead from the hub on the Eastern Sea to the capitol in the center of the nation. Gilead's government had been built on the principle of stability at all costs. Decision making happened slowly and deliberately. Decision-makers were not subject to the whims of the mob, and instead were appointed by regional representatives. There was little room for dissent because decisions were handed down from the Council, but the people across the nation valued the stability and had little reason to dissent. As a result, as long as the central government served as an ordering standard, society functioned well. Since the Crisis, the capitol froze. The Council no longer made decisions, and the stability crumbled.

In the Northeast, institutions had been built to support healthcare and scientific discovery. People interested in this field could go to these institutions and receive a free education in exchange for service to the state in the healthcare field. As a result, Gilead's healthcare system was the envy of the world. If residents of Dylandia, or Blefuscu often travelled to Gilead to receive treatment for the most difficult diseases. Gilead was wealthy enough to provide medical services for free. Now the institutions have fallen into disarray. Healthcare workers no longer receiving support from the central government began private practices in which they extorted high fees from sick folks.

While the Western Range was untracked, and few ventured above the foothills, many towns were built in the mineral rich foothills. Natural fuels that powered the shipping empire could be found in the mountains, and the central government built companies and networks to extract and transport these fuels to the Eastern Sea where they were used in shipping or exported to other nations. After the fall of the government and decimation of the workforce in the Crisis, these valuable regions were largely abandoned. Few remained, but for society to return there would need to be renaissance of industry. At the same time, there were concerns across the globe about the use of the fuels that were abundant in the Western Range.

Group one finds itself in the foothills of the Western Range. It is on them to convince people to return to the region so that the engine of the economy can be re-ignite. But they have to do so in a way that prevents another crisis of the environmental variety.

Group two is in the North East. While many of the healthcare workers went private, these idealists imagine a return to centralized healthcare for the nation and the world. This had been supported by a centralized government, but perhaps a new system can be built that is equally equitable and does not depend on the instructions from the government. Before anything can happen, though, healthcare workers need to return and commit to healthcare as a human right.

Group three represents the remaining architects of the infrastructure and logistics empire on the Eastern Sea. While fuel is short, the more critical problem to reestablish trade is labor shortages. Few people are willing to sail the post-Panic seas, and the only way for trade to return is to recruit a new army of sailors, merchant marines, logisticians, and others.

Group four finds itself the remnant government. Much of their faith in past governments has been shaken. The only hope for the land and its people is for these individuals to help organize the people across the small nation and re-establish ties, and more importantly trade, with neighbors across the sea.

## Chapter 3 (Section A)

In Dylandia the nascent groups are on the move. Residents of the Southern City woke a cold morning to find social media feeds and light posts plastered with flyers from The Council of Dylandia. The old government had been too gridlocked and frankly too old to respond to the severity of The Crisis. People were already skeptical of the government before The Panic. While it had been a democratic one with elected officials, the vast majority of them were closer to the end than the beginning of their lives, and deep cynicism of tolerating years of partisan bickering had left them overly cautious and easily acquiesced to the wishes of their party leaders. Then The Crisis hit the planet and people were afraid. Some now suggest that the Panic hit because when the world crumbled people saw found themselves isolated, alone, without safety nets. Even the people that had fantasized about being survivors were shaken. The people of Dylandia finally felt hope when the posters appeared. Many clicked through and answered the call but would The Council of Dylandia be able to deliver on their promise of food, safety, education and healthcare? Would they have the technology available? They still lack formal ties with the regions that could help them deliver. Unfortunately, the Southern City, in its enormous growth over the previous century, had isolated itself from the modes of production necessary to support a functioning society. The most immediate problem is lack of food, sound infrastructure and healthcare. While the people of the city and the land would return to social order, without the security a society provides, there is no hope.

Across the continent, IHOP tried a time tested method to rally the people: leaflets. Pre-internet, these printed documents had been the way to start social movements. Even in a time with advanced communications technology, leaflets carry weight. Whoever had the time to make these must be serious, the people thought. As IHOP's leaflets circulated through the mountain cities and factory towns, people heard the call, but so did the bandits. Nobody benefited from The Crisis, but a few had found The Panic to be quite lucrative. Those inclined towards extra-legal economic practices saw the crumbling of social order as an opportunity. A government provides security for the benefit of society. Bandits and extra-legal entities provide protection for profits. Liberal governments form and survive through social contracts: the people sacrifice some of their individual freedom for the order, security, and safety that a state provides. If the state ceases to function because its representatives are too out of touch or too paralyzed to act, OR if the people are tricked into believing the humans can thrive in a state of absolute freedom and don't need the structure a society provides, then the social contract crumbles. Bandits and warlords and bullies thrived in the post-social contract society of The Panic. IHOP presented itself as a new social contract: people working together for mutual benefit and security. The bandits were not pleased. Unsurprisingly, Anthony Power had re-appeared as a leading figure among the more powerful crime syndicates. When he saw the brochure he swore and vowed to destroy IHOP and everything it stood for. While IHOP presented an ideal that people wanted to believe in, there's some question as to whether they can gain wide enough support beyond the mountains to be able to challenge Power. If they could safely provide food, medicine, and social order, they had a chance because security is an antidote to bullies.

Meanwhile in the Plains Food Mafia No Rats was having a change of heart. They realized that mafia-ing was not the life for them, and having some control over the food systems of the Plains, they were ready to rebrand themselves as a friendly, more socially beneficial organization. To debut their rebranding, they held a town hall and invited the residents of the region to ask questions. Attendance was good because it gave people a reason to leave their homes. Food Mafia No Rats changed their name to the more friendly sounding, The Safest Way. Safety sounded good to the people who came and some hoped that they wouldn't have to be forced to "donate" their produce anymore. Of course the food producing population still had some reservations. In a crisis, having free access to food makes it less necessary to engage with others. Food Mafia had been forceful in their collecting of surplus foods, but The Safest Way was offering a system of mutual support. In the economic calculations of the people producing the food, this seemed like a better deal, but they were also hearing the need for food from other regions, and knew that they had good leverage in any potential future negotiations with neighbors. Would The Safest Way negotiate with their best interests in heart or would they return to their strong-armed ways? The most pressing need was medical care and whoever could deliver that would win the people over.

After food, the greatest need across Dylandia is healthcare and education. The Committee of Health and Educational Development realizes that, and they realize that the other organizations will eventually need to work with them, IF they can provide reliable health and education programs. The challenge they face is that when the social order collapsed the systems that housed doctors and teachers collapsed as well. People who work for the betterment of society do have a breaking point, and The Panic brought that. Anyone who had resources was able to offer great rewards, but their families alone received the benefits of education and medicine. Of course, being a private teacher for the wealthy does not satisfy the desire to serve society, but in the face of the alternative it looked pretty good. The Committee of Health and Educational Development released an editorial and social media post that spoke to idealism in the educational field. They promised a way for healers and teachers to rediscover their dreams, but only if they can keep food on the table. The Committee stands in a good position to negotiate with other regions because they have the intellectual capital that is necessary for a liberal and healthy society.

Across the land there is tentative hope, but will the organizations in the cities, the mountains, and the plains be able to propose alliances and policy?

## Chapter 4 (Section B)

In Gilead the new groups were also active. In the Western Range, District One has quickly realized that they faced a major problem of labor shortages to keep their mines and industry running. They also saw that they had a major resource that was untapped: empty houses. The Crisis and The Panic had been relatively swift, and so while society fell apart rapidly and many people perished, buildings stayed, relatively intact. In their campaign to recruit workers they sent representatives onto the talkshow circuit to share their work for housing programs. This was attractive since they demanded very little in return except for contribution towards the betterment of society on the part of the workers. Of course, they also offered a new way to work. Unlike the pre-Crisis-work-until-you-drop mentality that had gripped Gilead, District One offered a short work week along with job security and economic benefits. In the pre-Crisis days, inflation and an increasing gap between the ultra-wealthy and poor had created a public health problem. People who previously would've been able to make ends meet, afford home ownership and financial independence, had to work two or three jobs. The consequence of all that work: mental health issues, heart attacks, and falling fertility rates. If The Crisis hadn't hit when it did, it was likely that Gilead would've seen another crisis eventually due to the simple way their society was structured. People who'd survived the Panic were interested in the jobs District One offered, but without healthcare and without the stability of trade routes and without social order across the land, their return to work would be short lived. District One controls the goods that could re-ignite the engine of the Gileadian economy, but they can't do it alone.

In a few of the smaller communities across the land, a handful of individuals have fallen ill with flu-like symptoms. Currently it is nothing to be concerned about, but it is good that group two has started recruiting doctors. They announced themselves with a Census, which is a pretty smart choice considering it is difficult to know who has survived the Panic. In fact, the Census itself revealed the illness in some of the smaller communities. However, convincing people to stop lucrative private practice and turn to serve the public good is not an easy task. Many idealistic doctors responded to Group Two's call. Recruitment stations are busy, but not quite at capacity. At the same time healthcare professionals who turned mercenary are starting to run out of supplies, equipment, and other technologies that allow them to perform their trade. Small groups of them have banded together to get goods from District One, but logistics and production are too broken and these fragmented groups are too fragmented to be able to do trade on their own. While there is a great demand for healthcare across Gilead, even if Group Two cannot promise better pay, some pay is better than no work at all. If Group Two can figure out a way to get the technologies necessary for an effective healthcare system, perhaps they can persuade the private healthcare workers to return to serve the greater good.

People across the continents had taken for granted the importance of interconnected systems that allowed people to survive. From homes to foods to consumer goods to everything was the product of a complex economy. Prior to the Crisis, people had become enamored with their own self-efficacy. A person could get food on their table within 20 minutes by pushing a couple buttons on their cell phones. The real problem, however, was that by clicking those buttons to summon food, people believed it was through their will alone that the food appeared. During the Crisis, it ceased to appear. In the Panic, people realized that food wouldn't simply appear and they realized not only did they not know how to get food, "where's the nearest farm?" but they also didn't know how to prepare food if they'd managed to get to the farm. The same was true across industries. The people who founded the Thalassa Institute realized that the next generation of traders and logisticians would need to be created, and fast. They designed the organization and released flyers hoping to attract new students. People were interested, and the first class of Thalassa Institute exceeded their expectations by 275%. However, the institute itself wouldn't have jobs. They must work with the other regions to re-establish trade. How would the first graduating class get jobs working with the producers in District One? How would they transport products to the Health District?

Few nations were prepared when the Crisis hit, particularly their governments. Some were governed by ruthless dictators who sought personal gain at the expense of the populace. Others were ruled by tribunals of ideologues. Liberal governments rooted in the rule of law had become ossified and representatives cared more for their own positions than the people they represented. They were easily swayed to the demands of the powerful who could guarantee their positions perpetually. The few idealists who remained in the systems of government around the globe were stymied by political infighting and systems of "bribes" (don't call them bribes). The same was true for Gilead, and Gileadites weren't stupid. They knew that the government didn't serve them, but they didn't have much choice either. In this post-Panic time, the remnant government seeks to re-establish order by investigating what the population looked like and wanted, and by releasing speeches and messages that would give people a sense of hope and togetherness. The general people, who had been so sick of government, quickly realized that a limited government was better than no government at all. The people are ready for a new government, but the remnant government is just that: remnant. They have no control over industry, healthcare, or trade. Without these, there's not much that can be done. They must seek alliances or lose their place to some other group that can provide security, food, shelter, and so on.

Across the lands, people are on the move, but without alliances or relations, it's hard for goods and services to circulate. Perhaps policy and alliances will return to the land.

## Chapter 5 (Section A)

In Dylandia, the organizations in the four regions have succeeded in raising local support and establishing some degree of stability in their territories. Groups begin to unite. CHED and TSW establish an alliance, and IHOP sets out to establish an alliance with CHED. Meanwhile, the Council of Dylandia sets for a plan to unite all of the regions. The various alliances are starting off well, or so they seem. As time passes, scattering reports of an unfamiliar illness begin to appear. Several videos surface showing humans, or what seem to be humans, with bodies contorted and strange: limbs bent the wrong way, faces missing features, hands and feet swapped. As these reports appear, CHED sends a team to investigate and their search leads them to a tall grey building in the foothills of the mountains. Inside, they find computers with video production software and stunningly realistic animations not dissimilar from the videos. The team determines that the videos were manufactured, but by the time they release their announcement to the public, people across the land are beginning to talk of coverups and fear. The Council of Dylandia and IHOP both send researchers to analyze the systems computer systems. Forensics reveal hastily deleted emails on one terminal addressed to an <ap@inet.xyz>.

At the same time, a user began posting as the Grand Conspirator. A series of short hints and shared links to the videos. After several weeks of gaining traction the Grand Conspiritor write wrote the following message:

*People of Dylandia. I don't know about you, but I see these videos and they make me sick. I cannot share my identity here for fear of retribution, but I've seen the labs in which the pathogen was created to transform a human into such an abomination. The doctors in the Ched, fed by resources provided by TSW, with technology from IHOP controlled territories, and directed by the Council of Dylandia work there. It goes all the way to the top and the only way you can stop them is resist. Stop your work. Pull down the cable lines and radio towers. Block the roads. I call on you to resist before they unleash this deadly plague.*

Unfortunately, the general public hadn't learned much during the Crisis and the Panic. They were still susceptible to rumors and propaganda. Just as the organizations began to establish some normalcy, people began to panic again. It was at this moment that Andrew Power returned. His messaging was uncannily similar to that of the Grand Conspirator. He started a tour of the land in the mountains. As he turned up, the bandits disappeared. Of course it was planned, but the people didn't know. He made his way across the plains and gradually gathered support. Without a unified front and effective messaging, the land of Dylandia will fall to him. He already has taken the title "king" only partly in jest. Can the organizations establish a unified front and counter the fake news campaigns run by Andrew Power and his followers or will he gain the throne he so desperately craves?


## Chapter 6 (Section B)

As the groups gain further control over their regions alliances begin to form. District one, in the mountain region, opens an alliance with Group Two to exchange technology and services for treatment and expertise. Thalassa Institute has also established ties with District One and Group two. Group four is also engaged. It's impressive the degree of collaboration that can occur in desperate times, and while these alliances begin to form, alliances, these are desperate times. Food stores are running low and trade must be established with outside nations for longterm wellbeing of the nation.

One day not long after formal partnerships were established between the groups, posts on social media started to appear from an organization called the One World Collective. One post read, *What do we really now about what happens at the Thalassa Institute?* It was paired with a drawing of animal models from a medical research lab from before the Crisis. Another post read *District One is an oligarchy! Free our resources!* Yet another complained about the mysterious illness that had surfaced in recent weeks that Group Two was working hard to contain. However, the One World Collective was most critical of Group 4 and its ties to the old government. *Down with fascists* they posted regularly with various unironic pictures from the Crisis that had survived the Panic.

Technicians from District One and the Thalassa Institute traced the messages to a remote region across the great sea in Dylandia. Researchers quickly discovered that an individual called Andrew Power had been sowing dissent in Dylandia as well. Power had been wealthy prior to the Crisis as the heir of an arms manufacturing empire, and while most industries collapsed during the Crisis and Panic, arms manufacturing thrived. This was unfortunate, but true. Power had hidden through most of the upheaval but he was returning now with a hope of conquering Dylandia.

Your hope to solve the food shortages and the fake news campaign undermining the fragile order is to establish a central order so that trade can be established. At the same time, you must deconstruct the propaganda campaign coming from the One World Collective and retain the support of the population.
